Added overview section outlining high-level goals of the test (#114)
network-quality/draft-ietf-ippm-responsiveness: draft-ietf-ippm-responsiveness.md

14 {{RFC2119}} {{RFC8174}} when, and only when, they appear in all
capitals, as shown here.

# Overview

> In the last few decades the networking industry has made enormous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the last few decades, the networking industry has made enormous
```

advances in terms of the quantity of data our wired and wireless

> links can transfer. Rates have gone from kilobits per second, to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
links can transfer. Rates have gone from kilobits, to
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think this would be correct.

Author: I could have written:

`Rates have gone from kilobits per second, to megabits per second, to gigabits per second`

but that is repetitive.

I could have written:

`Rates have gone from kilobits/s, to megabits/s, to gigabits/s`

which is correct, but not very nice English.

I could have written:

`Rates have gone from kb/s, to Mb/s, to Gb/s`

which is also technically correct, but even worse English.

In the end I went with a compromise which I think is still acceptable grammar without being too verbose.

> megabits, to gigabits, and continue to increase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
megabits, to gigabits per second and continue to increase.
```

Reviewer 2: I think the original text is correct.

Reviewer: Okay! It was just a stylistic option, that's all!

Author: It is definitely a stylistic choice. Please see my comment above.

We also have broad industry agreement on the units for measuring
network capacity -- bits per second.
We have a wide array of tools available for measuring capacity
in these units, and these tools generally produce results that
are consistent and comparable between different tools.

In contrast to our remarkable improvements in throughput, we have
not done a good job developing networks that deliver consistently
low delay in all normal operating conditions. In fact, many people
may have unconsciously assumed that it would not be possible to
achieve such a capability. Correspondingly, we have not had
industry agreement on what constitutes reasonable fair working
conditions under which to measure a network’s round-trip delay,

> and consequently for a long time we have measured and reported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and, consequently, for a long time we have measured and reported
```

> only the idle round-trip time for a network. The actual round-trip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the round-trip time on an idle network as the only metric . The actual round-trip
```

times observed when traffic is flowing have generally been so much
worse than the idle round-trip time (often by a factor of 100 or
more) that it seemed almost impolite to draw attention to them.

And so, by measuring and reporting throughput and idle round-trip
time, we have motivated vendors and operators to focus on those
aspects of performance, and to neglect other factors that also
impact the quality of user experience.

Measurements of idle round-trip time can be informative, but users
also care about how well their network performs when they are
using it, not only how well it performs when no-one is using it.
In this document we specify how to measure network round-trip time
under reasonable representative operating conditions.
This document focusses on this specific aspect of network quality,
because we feel it is a particularly pressing issue at this time.
Future companion documents could address how to measure and report
other aspects of network quality that affect user experience.

## Correlation with User Experience

> The most important property of this test tool is that its

Reviewer: Suggestion:
> The most important property of this test tool is that its results correlate with user experience. A high score on the Responsiveness Test should predict a good user experience. A low score on the Responsiveness Test should predict a bad user experience.

(As a replacement for this and the next two sentences.)

Author: I don’t think I agree here. I wanted to introduce predictive capability first (“predictive value” is an established term in this context for tests) and then expand on what that means by talking about correlation. I also talked about “high scores” and “low scores” in the plural to convey that this is a continuum. There are many high scores and many low scores, and many others in between.

results should be a good predictor of user experience.
High scores on the Responsiveness Test should
correlate with good user experience, and low
scores should correlate with poor user experience.

> This allows network engineers to experiment with code changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A test with this predictive power would give network engineers a way to experiment with code changes
```

of the end systems generating and receiving the traffic.
Consequently, if we are to obtain useful measurements pertaining
to the network itself, uncontaminated by noise or bias introduced
by the test endpoints, we need to ensure that the test endpoints
are of the highest quality and are not responsible for introducing
significant delays (or delay variation) themselves.
This means that the test endpoints should be using techniques like
TCP\_NOTSENT\_LOWAT {{RFC9293}} to keep the backlog of unsent data
limited to a reasonable amount, in conjunction with the current
best-in-class rate adaptation algorithms
(such as the Prague congestion controller
{{Prague}})
and the current best-in-class network signalling (such as L4S {{RFC9330}}).
These techniques allow the network to signal when the source
is sending too fast and a queue is starting to build up, so
that the source can adjust its sending rate accordingly.
We believe that having the network signal when the source is sending
more data than the network can carry (rather than just letting the
situation worsen until a queue overflows and packets are lost) is
vital for creating networks that deliver consistent low latency.

> If this is true, we expect the test results to reflect that networks

Reviewer: "this" what?

Reviewer 2: I assume the statement in the previous setence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this conjecture is true, we expect the test results to reflect that networks
```

"This" without a "what" always bother me. It's just a suggestion, though!

Author: Changed it to: “We believe that… If our belief is correct, we expect…”

with this signalling yield lower delays than networks without it.
In any case, if the sending and receiving test endpoints are not
able to make use of L4S signalling, then the test will be unable
to measure and report the effect of L4S support (or its absence)
in the network’s bottleneck links.

## Purpose of Test Tool

> The primary purpose of this test tool is to evaluate network

Reviewer: We said earlier, 

> specify how to measure network round-trip time under reasonable representative operating conditions

is the purpose of the Responsiveness Test. Here we seem to backtrack on our specificity. It seems like we should be consistent.

Author: Maybe I could be explaining this better. We want to measure application-layer round-trip time. But we want to focus on how the _network_ impacts application-layer round-trip time, not how low-quality client and server software can contribute to application-layer round-trip time. So the focus of the test is to assess _network_ properties; however it can also expose client and server software and hardware issues too. Finding client and server bugs is useful, but not the main purpose. At least, that is my assertion, and I drafted this text to see if my co-authors (and the WG) agree, that primary purpose of this test tool is to evaluate the network.

commonly used request/response protocols, and protocols that do
bulk data transfer, adapting their sending rate to match the
available network capacity.

Many protocols share the property that over a single communication channel a client:

(a) may read small or large data objects from the server, \\
(b) may write small or large data objects to the server, \\
(c) may have multiple operations executing concurrently, and \\
(d) may choose to cancel outstanding operations if
circumstances change and the operation is no longer needed.

If a client reads a very large data object from a server and then
a small data object, it is preferable if the small data object
doesn’t have to wait until after the very large data object has
been received in its entirety.

HTTP supports reads, writes, concurrent operations, cancellation
of outstanding operations, and interleaving of data from
concurrent operations. This makes HTTP a representative proxy for
virtually any request/response protocol. The specific details of
the message syntax, or the byte values used, are not important.

HTTP has the additional convenience that it is very widely

> deployed in today’s world, it it is fairly easy to configure many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deployed in today’s world, and it is fairly easy to configure many
```

> modern web servers to operate as responsiveness test servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
modern web servers to operate as Responsiveness Test servers.
```
